hi I'm Rory Boland editor of which
travel magazine and I will be answering
all of your questions about future
holidays only quite so far as to say
Europe is open for travel but it is
getting there so we now have many many
countries the majority of new countries
are open to either other Schengen area
countries or the whole of the EU or the
whole of the EU and the UK and so we
definitely have seen a lot of progress
this week I've seen lots of travel
journalist colleagues who live in Paris
and Rome different parts of Italy
sharing pictures of them eating in
restaurants and cafes and I have to say
it looks fantastic
[Music]
so close but not just yet I'm afraid
there are a number of problems still for
us booking a holiday things are getting
better so things are looking up
we have seen some airlines relaunching
his flights indeed easyJet has started
flying again albeit domestic routes in
the UK but both these jet and Ryanair
are looking to have planes in the sky in
July too many of our favorite
destinations also Spain and France have
said that they will welcome back
UK travellers all those a little bit of
confusion at the moment about whether we
will need to quarantine and the reason
for that is one of the biggest problems
for us is because we will need to
quarantine when we return so France and
Spain are saying potentially they will
only allow us in without quarantine if
we do the same so at the moment for all
of us if we do go abroad and we come
back that means committing to 14 days in
self-isolation that won't be doable for
many people for a holiday the other big
hurdle is the Foreign and Commonwealth
Office warning that remains in place
against all non-essential travel to all
destinations at the moment now if you
were to travel regardless of that
warning you would invalidate your travel
insurance so it wouldn't cover you for
anything that's a really big problem
especially given the potential for
further disruption
from say second spike in coronavirus in
a country and so you could be left with
a really big bill if something went
wrong for me at the moment it's still
too big a gamble to book a holiday
abroad the UK travel restrictions aren't
yet easing but we're close and so the
date to keep in mind if you're in
England is the fourth of July so that is
the date when the UK government has said
in England they are looking to open
overnight accommodation that's hotels
it's also caravan parks and campsites
that there had been some suggestion they
might open earlier but that's not the
case but just to reiterate that is the
earliest they will open and so again it
is not a good time to book if you were
to book something for say the fifth of
July and the government comes out
tomorrow and says actually we're
extending the ban on travel the ban on
overnight accommodation you could lose
your money and there's also added
complexity if you are in Wales and
Scotland because the rules there are a
little bit stricter at the moment people
in Wales for example aren't allowed to
go further than five miles from their
house and so that would prevent them
from taking up any kind of overnight
holiday accommodation including
travelling into England it is also worth
considering travel insurance if you are
booking a holiday in the UK now that's
not something people would ordinarily
buy for UK trip primarily because travel
insurance really mostly is there to
cover you for medical expenses when
you're abroad and of course here we have
the NHS so it's not required but travel
insurance does also cover you for
disruption if you get the right policy
and to say you and booked a trip in the
UK and unfortunately someone in your
party got ill and you decided you didn't
want to go you couldn't go they couldn't
go and travel insurance could if you've
got the right policy cover you for that
so you know if it were me if it was a
cheap trip just a weekend I probably
wouldn't be too concerned about it but I
was booking an expensive trip in the UK
and I know many of us will be travel
insurance is definitely something to
consider and many of you listening may
all
ready have travel insurance because it's
often packaged with bank accounts for
example it comes as extras with other
things and so it's worth checking if you
have it and if you don't and you're
booking an expensive trip do consider
taking it out